WIP BXMSDOC-7617: Content for Deploying Kogito microservices on OpenShift chapter (#60)
hmanwani-rh/kie-docs: doc-content/enterprise-only/getting-started-kogito/proc-kogito-microservices-deploying-on-ocp-console.adoc

[id="proc-kogito-microservices-deploying-on-ocp-console_{context}"]
= Deploying {KOGITO} microservices on OpenShift using the OpenShift web console

> After you create your {KOGITO} microservices as part of a business application, you can use the {OPENSHIFT} web console to deploy your microservices. The {KOGITO} Operator page in the OpenShift web console guides you through the deployment process. The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository that contains your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from source and deploy the resulting microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you create your {KOGITO} microservices as part of a business application, you can use the {OPENSHIFT} web console to deploy your microservices. The {KOGITO} Operator page in the OpenShift web console guides you through the deployment process. The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository containing your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from the source and deploy the resulting microservices.
```
"required" = passive voice

Reviewer 2: @briandooley  I prefer 'that contains' instead of 'containing'. It is clearer IMO. @hmanwani-rh , you can leave that, but add 'the'.

> After you create your {KOGITO} microservices as part of a business application, you can use the {OPENSHIFT} web console to deploy your microservices. The {KOGITO} Operator page in the OpenShift web console guides you through the deployment process. The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository that contains your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from source and deploy the resulting microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create your {KOGITO} microservices as part of a business application, you can use the {OPENSHIFT} web console to deploy your microservices. The {KOGITO} Operator page in the OpenShift web console guides you through the deployment process. The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository containing your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from the source and deploy the resulting microservices.
```

Reviewer 2: @briandooley I think 'after' is appropriate here, if indeed you must first create the Kogito service.  When implies a simultaneous actions. @hmanwani-rh is that the intent? Also, Heena, you can remove this from the procedure:
 The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository containing your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from the source and deploy the resulting microservices.

> After you create your {KOGITO} microservices as part of a business application, you can use the {OPENSHIFT} web console to deploy your microservices. The {KOGITO} Operator page in the OpenShift web console guides you through the deployment process. The {KOGITO} Operator is based on the https://sdk.operatorframework.io/[Operator SDK] and automates many of the deployment steps for you. For example, when you give the operator a link to the Git repository that contains your application, the operator can automatically configure the components required to build your project from source and deploy the resulting microservices.

Reviewer 3: redundant information.

.Prerequisites
* The application with your {KOGITO} microservices is in a Git repository that is reachable from your OpenShift environment.

> * You have access to the OpenShift web console with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Reviewer 3: `cluster-admin` permission is required just to install Kogito operator on openshit clusture. Once operator is installed on cluster, any user with limited namespace permission could deploy its application using kogito operator.

Author: > `cluster-admin` permission is required just to install Kogito operator on openshit clusture. Once operator is installed on cluster, any user with limited namespace permission could deploy its application using kogito operator.

Do we need to mention this in the doc?

> * (Quarkus only) The `pom.xml` file of your project contains the following dependency for the https://quarkus.io/guides/microprofile-health[Quarkus `smallrye-health` extension]. This extension enables the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes[liveness and readiness probes] that are required for Quarkus-based projects on OpenShift.

Reviewer: "that are required" - passive voice.

Reviewer 2: I think it is OK here.

+
.SmallRye Heath dependency for Quarkus applications on OpenShift
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
  <artifactId>quarkus-smallrye-health</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

.Procedure

> . In the OpenShift web console, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub* in the left menu, search for and select *Kogito*, and follow the on-screen instructions to install the latest operator version.

Reviewer 3: First two steps are for install Kogito operator itself. Could you have a seperator section above `DEPLOYING KOGITO MICROSERVICES ON OPENSHIFT USING THE OPENSHIFT WEB CONSOLE` for install kogito operator rather then mix it with deploy kogito application.

Author: > select _Operators_... I'm not loving 'left menu'. Is there another way you could describe it? I think I would make this two steps.
> In the OpenShift web console, go to _Operators_ -> _OperatorHub_ from the menu located on the left of the screen (or whatever).
> Search for and select _Kogito_, and follow the on-screen instructions to install the latest operator version.

@emmurphy1 If we keep it as is, the user has some action to do in the first step only, he/she does not need to look for another step to perform an action. I believe we should be having an action. wdyt?

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry. I don't follow. There are multiple steps.

> . In the OpenShift web console, go to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub* in the left menu, search for and select *Kogito*, and follow the on-screen instructions to install the latest operator version.

Reviewer 2: select *Operators*... I'm not loving 'left menu'. Is there another way you could describe it? I think I would make this two steps. 
 In the OpenShift web console, go to  *Operators* -> *OperatorHub* from the menu located on the left of the screen (or whatever).
Search for and select *Kogito*, and follow the on-screen instructions to install the latest operator version.

. After you install the {KOGITO} Operator, go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* and select *Kogito*.

> . In the operator page, select the *Kogito Build* tab and click *Create KogitoBuild* to create the {KOGITO} build definition.

Reviewer 2: On the page, in the window. So On the operator page, ...
To create the {KOGITO} build definition,  on the operator page, select the *Kogito Build* tab and click *Create KogitoBuild* .

Put the reason first.

> . In the application window, use the *Form View* or *YAML View* to configure the build definition.

Reviewer 2: delete 'the'.
In the application window, use *Form View* or *YAML View*
or
In the application window, use the *Form View* or *YAML View* page to...

+
--
At a minimum, define the application configurations shown in the following example YAML file:

.Example YAML definition for an application with {KOGITO} build
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----

> apiVersion: app.kiegroup.org/v1beta1 # {KOGITO} API for this service

Reviewer 3: for RMPAM `apiversion` should be `rhpam.kiegroup.org/v1`.

kind: KogitoBuild  # Application type
metadata:
  name: example-quarkus  # Application name

>   namespace: kogito  # OpenShift project namespace

Reviewer 3: To use `namespace: kogito`, first namespace `kogito` needs to be created.

spec:
  type: RemoteSource
  gitSource:
    uri: 'https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples'  # Git repository containing application (uses default branch)
    contextDir: process-quarkus-example  # Git folder location of application
----

[NOTE]
====

> If you configured an internal Maven repository, you can use it as a Maven mirror service and specify the Maven mirror URL in your {KOGITO} build definition to substantially shorten build time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you configured an internal Maven repository, you can use it as a Maven mirror service and specify the Maven mirror URL in your {KOGITO} build definition to shorten build time substantially:
```

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  mavenMirrorURL: http://nexus3-nexus.apps-crc.testing/repository/maven-public/
----

For more information about internal Maven repositories, see the https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-repositories.html[Apache Maven] documentation.
====
--
. After you define your application data, click *Create* to generate the {KOGITO} build.
+

> Your application is listed in the *{KOGITO}Builds* page. You can select the application name to view or modify application settings and YAML details.

Reviewer: "is listed" - passive voice.

Reviewer 2: It's OK.

> . In the operator page, select the *Kogito Service* tab and click *Create KogitoRuntime* to create the {KOGITO} microservice definition.

Reviewer 2: AB4

> . In the application window, use the *Form View* or *YAML View* to configure the microservice definition.

Reviewer 2: Ab4

+
--
At a minimum, define the application configurations shown in the following example YAML file:

.Example YAML definition for an application with {KOGITO} microservices
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----

> apiVersion: app.kiegroup.org/v1beta1 # {KOGITO} API for this microservice

Reviewer 3: for RMPAM apiversion should be rhpam.kiegroup.org/v1

Reviewer 3: some screenshot could be helpful in process to deploy Kogito application using openshit web console.

kind: KogitoRuntime  # Application type
metadata:
  name: example-quarkus  # Application name
  namespace: kogito  # OpenShift project namespace
----

--

> . After you define your application data, click *Create* to generate the {KOGITO} microservice.

Reviewer 2: Reason first.
To generate the {KOGITO} microservice,  after you define your application data, click *Create*.

Author: In this step, I am following the flow for the user. 
First - define application data
then generate the microservice. 

wdyt?

+

> Your application is listed in the {KOGITO} microservice page. You can select the application name to view or modify application settings and YAML details.

Reviewer: "is listed" - passive voice.

> Your application is listed in the {KOGITO} microservice page. You can select the application name to view or modify application settings and YAML details.

Reviewer 2: ...and the contents of the YAML file.

. In the left menu of the web console, go to *Builds* -> *Builds* to view the status of your application build.
+
--
You can select a specific build to view build details.

[NOTE]
====

> For every {KOGITO} service that you create for OpenShift deployment, two builds are generated and listed in the *Builds* page in the web console: a traditional runtime build and a Source-to-Image (S2I) build with the suffix `-builder`. The S2I mechanism builds the application in an OpenShift build and then passes the built application to the next OpenShift build to be packaged into the runtime container image. The {KOGITO} S2I build configuration also enables you to build the project directly from a Git repository on the OpenShift platform.

Reviewer: "to be packaged" - passive voice.
"enables" - From the style guide.
"Use to describe the action of making an interface control or product function available to users. Avoid stating that inanimate objects grant abilities to people, as in “the product enables you to...” Whenever possible, use a direct, user-focused alternative such as “you can use the product to...” or “with this product, users can...”"

> For every {KOGITO} service that you create for OpenShift deployment, two builds are generated and listed in the *Builds* page in the web console: a traditional runtime build and a Source-to-Image (S2I) build with the suffix `-builder`. The S2I mechanism builds the application in an OpenShift build and then passes the built application to the next OpenShift build to be packaged into the runtime container image. The {KOGITO} S2I build configuration also enables you to build the project directly from a Git repository on the OpenShift platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each {KOGITO} service that you create for OpenShift deployment, two builds are generated and listed in the *Builds* page in the web console: a traditional runtime build and a Source-to-Image (S2I) build with the suffix `-builder`. The S2I mechanism builds the application in an OpenShift build and then passes the built application to the next OpenShift build to be packaged into the runtime container image. The {KOGITO} S2I build configuration also enables you to build the project directly from a Git repository on the OpenShift platform.
```
"enables" - From the style guide.
"Use to describe the action of making an interface control or product function available to users. Avoid stating that inanimate objects grant abilities to people, as in “the product enables you to...” Whenever possible, use a direct, user-focused alternative such as “you can use the product to...” or “with this product, users can...”"

> For every {KOGITO} service that you create for OpenShift deployment, two builds are generated and listed in the *Builds* page in the web console: a traditional runtime build and a Source-to-Image (S2I) build with the suffix `-builder`. The S2I mechanism builds the application in an OpenShift build and then passes the built application to the next OpenShift build to be packaged into the runtime container image. The {KOGITO} S2I build configuration also enables you to build the project directly from a Git repository on the OpenShift platform.

Reviewer 2: on the page. Enables OK here.

====
--
. After the application build is complete, go to *Workloads* -> *Deployments* to view the application deployments, pod status, and other details.
+
You can select the application name to increase or decrease the pod count or modify deployment settings.

> . After your {KOGITO} microservice is deployed, in the left menu of the web console, go to *Networking* -> *Routes* to view the access link to the deployed application.

Reviewer: "is deployed" - passive voice.

+

> You can select the application name to view or modify route settings.

Reviewer 2: To view or modify...
